Welcome to my analysis on mice with squamous cell carcinoma or SCC for short! SCC is a commonly occuring form on skin cancer. 

The goal here was to see how well a drug called Capomulin would perform against other drugs. I won't give away the results just yet! Please stay tuned for the end or check out my jupyter notebook where I give away the results in the first section of the notebook. Anti-climactic, I know. 

First, I would like to give credit to my Instructor, Drew, for assisting me in completing this analysis. There was not much analysis made in this jupyter notebook because the focus was on creating graphs that would explain the data in greater detail than words would. The emphasis here was using Matplotlib to create bar charts, pie charts, a box plot, a line plot, and a scatter plot. Nonetheless, I want to briefly walk through my jupyter notebook and explain each section. 

The beginning section is my analysis, so these are my thoughts on the results of all the graphs I configured. I do make a claim in regards to the goal of this analysis, but I emphasis that more research can always be done in order to solidify the results even more. The timeframe for this dataset was only 45 days, and I believe that the findings could have been extended for longer to see the lasting effects of these drugs. Nonetheless, we are able to get a glimpse in how the drug Capomulin performed compared to other drugs, and this allows us to focus on Capomulin and any other drug that could be a contender. 

For the actual script, setting up all the imports for the script is the most important part since I would not be able to perform most of the code without importing Matplotlib, Pandas, and Scipy.stats. After importing, I simply make sure that I am able to connect and read the datasets. For easier management of the datasets, I merge both of them on the basis of "Mouse ID". From there, it is simple data cleaning since I want to ensure that there are no duplicated mice data that could alter the tables/graphs later on. The summary statisitics is the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and standard error of the mean of the tumor volume in relation to each of the drug regimens. The result of the summary statistics can be performed two ways: a longer way or using the aggregation method. From there, I proceeded to create bar charts and pie charts using both Pandas and Pyplot to showcase the same results using two different methods. Next, a for loop is needed in order to loop through each of the drugs we want to compare. As each drug is looped through, the script will calculate the upper and lower quartiles of each and figuring out if any of the drugs has an outlier that should be considered. All the calculations will be appended into an empty list that will store all the data for plotting later. From the bar plot, we can see that the drug Infubinol has an outlier, and the tumor volume of Capomulin and Ramicane are noticeably smaller than the other two drugs. After that, I wanted to see how Capomulin affected a randomly chosen mouse that had been treated with the drug. The line plot was used to support my initial analysis. Furthermore, we can see a correlation between tumor volume and weight of the mice. As the weight of a mouse increases, the tumor volume of that mouse is likely to increase as well. 

That concludes my analysis! I just want to emphasize again that this is practice for me to use tools such as Matplotlib, Pandas, and Scipy.stats. Also, I give full credit to my instructor Drew for assisting me through this analysis. Thank you for reading my README file. 
